.\" $OpenBSD: wsfb.man,v 1.2 2002/02/07 14:31:10 jason Exp $
.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH WSFB __drivermansuffix__ __vendorversion__
.SH NAME
wsfb \- video driver for wsdisplay framebuffer device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "Section \*qDevice\*q"
.BI "  Identifier \*q"  devname \*q
.B  "  Driver \*qwsfb\*q"
\ \ ...
.B EndSection
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wsfb
is an XFree86 driver for the OpenBSD wsdisplay framebuffer devices.
This is a non-accelerated driver, the following framebuffer depths are
supported: 8, 16, 24, given the wsdisplay device underneath supports
them. 
All visual types are supported for depth 8, and TrueColor visual is
supported for the other depths.  Multi-head configurations are supported.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE
The 
.B wsfb
driver supports all hardware where a the wsdisplay framebuffer driver
is available on OpenBSD. Currently this includes OpenBSD/macppc and
OpenBSD/sparc64 only. 
.SH CONFIGURATION DETAILS
Please refer to XF86Config(__filemansuffix__) for general configuration
details.  This section only covers configuration details specific to
this driver.
.PP
For this driver it is not required to specify modes in the screen 
section of the config file.  The
.B wsfb
driver can pick up the currently used video mode from the framebuffer 
driver and will use it. Video modes specifications in the config file
will be ignored. 
.PP
The following driver 
.B Options
are supported:
.TP
.BI "Option \*qdevice\*q \*q" string \*q
The framebuffer device to use. Default: /dev/ttyC0
.TP
.BI "Option \*qShadowFB\*q \*q" boolean \*q
Enable or disable use of the shadow framebuffer layer.  See
shadowfb(__drivermansuffix__) for further information.  Default: on.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XFree86(1), XF86Config(__filemansuffix__), xf86config(1), Xserver(1),
X(__miscmansuffix__), fbdev(__drivermansuffix__)
.SH AUTHORS
Authors include: Matthieu Herrb, Gerd Knorr, Michel Dänzer, Geert Uytterhoeven
